human rights are for everybody or
they're for nobody
I remember there were debates at the
time when the first scandals are
breaking about the use of torture by the
George W Bush administration in
Afghanistan in Iraq etc and there were
people primarily members the Republican
Party who made statements such as why
can't the journalists just understand
that these standards of human rights
these protocol and procedures do not
apply to everyone that some people are
so terrible or such grave threats to
democracy that these standards don't
apply to them and I actually never saw
an article even bothering to to make the
counter-argument to that but I mean the
fundamental counter-argument is human
rights are not just for your friends
they're not just for your allies they're
for your worst enemies
they're for the people you despise
they're for the people who harm you
they're for the people who are threat to
you or they're for nobody that's a
tremendously important principle that
helps to separate the modern world from
the barbarity of the medieval world it
is a supreme irony that right now
durianrider is being accused of having
sex with the same woman that he accused
me of having some kind of sexual
relationship with the same 16 year old
in Chiangmai whom he very inconsistently
and incoherently implied I had some kind
of sexual attachment to you know you can
read the actual messages they're
observed here I have seen comments that
he made on the internet where he spells
it out a little bit more clearly but he
kept it vague he kept it incoherent
intentionally so that would be very hard
for me to defend myself but he was
constantly insinuating that I was
contacting underage girls in Chiangmai
and there only was one average girl in
Chiangmai and so on and he would never
answer the question what do you mean by
con it was ridiculous most of you guys
watching this already know that okay
what a few weeks go by not only has
durianrider been accused of very serious
sexual impropriety he's been accused of
of having sex with the same woman the
same girl the same young woman what if
you want to say so I am in the surreal
position of saying to you that
durianrider should not be falsely
accused he should not be falsely treated
as guilty until proven innocent for the
same reasons that I should not have been
falsely accused I should not have been
defamed I should not have been treated
guilty until proven innocent now there
are differences between the two
situations durianrider has met this girl
they've spoken they're on video tape
they spent time together I think they've
been on bicycle trips together yes
that's that's not a false I usually they
know each other at least when the
allegations against me were made part of
what made them so absurd was that I had
only been in Chiangmai for a few days I
had not met or talked with any teenagers
the only people I've met and spoken with
were people you've actually you've seen
on this same youtube channel i met with
jake Eames i met with lea and you know i
only been there for a couple days and i
didn't have a girlfriend I didn't have
any romantic contact with anyone now you
guys know this is only part of the story
the other allegations you know I mean
this guy just made up at a thin air that
I'm a wife beater that the reason for my
divorce is that they're criminal charges
pending and now I have to prove myself
in it so everyone knows there was real
malice real misconduct on during writers
part that is totally different from
what's happening now with people on the
internet jumping up and down to accuse
durianrider
of having committed some form of sexual
propriety but there are two things to
remember here one morality is not
identical to legality I mean among you
know if durianrider has consensual sex
with an 18 year old in Thailand or in
many other places there may be no crime
it may be weird it may be creepy it may
be something people gossip about or it
may not be I mean people you know
people are gonna talk but it may really
be that he has done nothing wrong and it
is tremendously important that you
appreciate that he should be treated as
innocent until proven guilty and even in
my own case even in his making threats
against my person
even in his defaming me even if it has
you know insulting my mom you also have
to appreciate that it's possible that he
is not guilty of any crime whatsoever
now all comparisons are odious but
recently when I was talking about this
with vegan cheetah I said to him look
people who've donated to this cause
people have donated money to me to take
this guy to court you have to do it just
because it's the right thing to do you
can't assume there are gonna be positive
outcomes in the same way it seems like
every few months in the United States a
black person is shot by police officers
for dubious reasons you know I don't
need to name the specific examples every
few months during the last couple of
years there's been one scandal after
another where an African American a
black person in the United States is
killed by the cops and the journalists
and the public are left saying why did
this happen and it seems like they're at
least initially it seems like there's
absolutely no justification for why the
police killed this man killed this man
or killed this boy or Cubs teenager
there of different ages of course and
people do donate money to legal funds to
go to court but sometimes those cases
end by finding that the police officer
did nothing legally wrong and we're left
with something that's that has always
been of profound discomfort in Western
civilization it was a discomfort
in ancient Athens if you go back and
read the classics from ancient Greece we
are uncomfortable with the concept that
some things are morally wrong and yet
they are legally permissible if if
durianrider has a girlfriend who's 18
years old I don't know that he does I
have no
even think that I there is no evidence
people are just making up garbage on the
Internet
so they can try to get views and some of
them are making it up with malice in
their hearts or have you that that's
another story you know maybe it is
morally wrong I mean I think gambling is
morally wrong but all over the world
there are places where gambling is
completely legal you know my perspective
I can come on the internet and I can
tell you I have a cousin who was
addicted to gambling and it ruined his
life and an impacted his whole family I
can come here and make that moral
argument but my cousin never never broke
any laws he became a gambling addict and
he gambled in completely legal casinos
and you know the usual story and it is a
tragic story it is said and yeah you
know I don't know a guy during Ryder's
age he's the only a couple years old to
me can have a love affair with a much
younger woman and maybe it's tragic for
him and maybe it's tragic for her and
maybe emotionally and morally maybe
there are all kinds of themes you can
write a novel about or reflect on or
philosophize about but there may be
absolutely nothing illegal about it and
again I've asked people to donate money
to support my legal costs and a thank
you of thank you before I thank you
again I hope you donate it because it's
the right thing to do because you care
about the future of veganism because you
want this to become a movement in which
it is not normalized in which we don't
accept as a matter of course defamation
and threats of violence right because
there was a long period of normalization
where these things happen so many times
to so many different people that there
was almost an indifference people shrug
the show you know durianrider called
someone else a fake vegan during writers
said someone else was on steroids during
a writer called someone else a shill a
fraud during writer called someone else
a pedophile or a sexual predator it had
there was a boiling frog effect very uh
non vegan metaphor there was this
gradual process of people becoming
accustomed to a high level of defamation
vulgarity just immoral conduct within
the movement the movement that doesn't
yet exist I hope it will in the future I
hope we become
but look we can have the same problem
again now with durianrider
as the victim instead of during writer
being the perpetrator okay does
durianrider currently have a 16 year old
girlfriend I have absolutely no reason
to believe that's true or to suspect
it's true or to make up you know
malicious lies or rumors about it on the
Internet
and the people who are doing that know
there are differences I haven't seen
anyone threatening to be terrain writer
up I haven't seen anyone threatening to
take him to jail
etc etc I haven't seen anyone attacking
Doreen Ryder's mom or daxing him or you
know obviously durianrider takes these
things to such an absurd extreme that we
can't easily compare him to his critics
and detractors but as a matter of
principle I end this video by saying the
same thing I said at the top either
human rights are for everybody or
therefore nobody even if durianrider is
the most despicable human being in the
world he deserves to have the same
standard of procedural justice as anyone
else he deserves to be treated as
innocent until proven guilty